---
layout: post
title: Camera phone and other cell phone bar code technology
url: http://apievangelist.com/2008/01/23/camera-phone-and-other-cell-phone-bar-code-technology/
source: http://apievangelist.com/2008/01/23/camera-phone-and-other-cell-phone-bar-code-technology/
domain: apievangelist.com
image: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}<p>Some very interesting stuff in two-dimensional camera phone barcodes out there on the Internet.Was reading the NY Times Articles on Mobile Phone Barcodes and it referenced a couple of technologies like Semacode, QR Code and Qode, and barcode technology maker Nextcode.Here is an introduction to Two-Dimensional Camera Phone Barcodes that explained the technology to me.There are plenty of big players in the game trying to push camera phone and other cell phone bar code technologies in the is country such as Microsoft Launches Windows Live Barcode Beta.What is Windows Live Barcode? Windows Live Barcode is a set of services that transfer information between various media (PCs, billboards, magazines etc.) and handsets via Quick Response Code (QR Code), a two-dimensional barcode. It provides a new method for people to exchange information and enjoy various online services on handsets. Windows Live Barcode aims to enhance handset utility and provide you with more convenience and flexibility.The technology is big in Japan and is used in many daily activities.  Here is a definition of QR code:What is a QR Code for Mobile Devices? -  A QR Code is a two-dimensional bar code introduced by the Japanese company Denso-Wave in 1994.  QR stands for Quick Response.  QR Codes are most common in Japan, and are the most popular type of two-dimensional code in Japan.These two-dimensional images are truly the missing link in taking your social media campaign off line or bringing your off line campaign online.</p>
<center><p><a href="http://apievangelist.com/2008/01/23/camera-phone-and-other-cell-phone-bar-code-technology/" style='padding:25px; font-sze:18px; font-weight: bold;'>Read Full Story</a></p></center>
