---
layout: post
title: Web-based Existence being a Developer
url: http://apievangelist.com/2008/01/09/web-based-existence-being-a-developer/
source: http://apievangelist.com/2008/01/09/web-based-existence-being-a-developer/
domain: apievangelist.com
image: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}So in the last year I have completely move online.  Everything I do is web-based.  Most of my world exists underneath my Google Account.However I use many other web services to get done what I do everyday.  I can sit down at any computer pretty much and access my world online and get busy.One area I am lacking is a web-based code editor to manage develop my sites and web applications.  I utilize the OWS Architecture for managing a lot of the content on our sites and build out our dynamic web sites using a CMS system.Though when it comes to building applications and writing code I really don't have many options.  So recently I found a Edit Area a free web-based Javascript Editor.The main features are:Easy to integrate, only one script include and one function callTabulation support (allow to write well formated source code)Search and replace (with regexp)Customizable real-time syntax highlighting (currently: PHP, CSS, Javascript, Python, HTML, XML, VB, C, CPP, Pascal, Basic, Brainf*ck)Auto-indenting new linesLine numerotationMultilanguage support (currently: Croatian, Danish, English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Polish, Portuguese)Possible PHP gzip compression (compress the 12 core files to one file of ~20Ko)Allow multiple instancesFull screen modePossible plugin integrationPossible save and load callback functionsPossible dynamic content managementCan work in the same environment than "protype" and "mootools"'s like libraries.So I am going to start integrating it into some of my work and servers.  I will let you guys know how it goes.  It will be nice to have this last piece of my world moved online.