---
layout: post
title: Google Cloud Print Control
url: http://kinlane.com/2011/02/08/google-cloud-print-control/
image: http://kinlane-productions.s3.amazonaws.com/mimeo-logo.jpg
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>
     The whole point of deploying a Google Cloud Print Proxy is to be able to manage print jobs. After authenticating using Google ClientLogin API, you can then fetch an existing Google Cloud Print Job from the users queue. Each print job has an ID that you can use to reference the print job and control the status with /control service. The Google Cloud Print /control endpoint accepts the following parameter(s): ' jobid - Unique job identification (generated by server). status - Status of the job, which can be one of the following: QUEUED: Job just added and has not yet been downloaded. SPOOLED: Job downloaded and has been added to the client-side native printer queue. DONE: Job printed successfully. ERROR: Job cannot be printed due to an error. code - Error code string or integer (as returned by the printer or OS) if the status is ERROR. message - Error message string (as returned by the printer or OS) if the status is ERROR Here is an example JSON response: The /control interface can be used by the proxy to update Google Cloud Print about the status of the print job for a users cloud printer. This interface is not used for any control, disabling, or filtering of the print job or the printer. Related articles Introduction to the Google Cloud Print Services Interface (kinlane.com) Solving Windows 7 Print Spooler Problems (brighthub.com) Print From iOS and Android to Any Printer with Google Cloud Print (wired.com)
</p>