---
layout: post
title: Local, Geo Landscape Roundup - January 9th, 2012
url: http://apievangelist.com/2012/01/09/local-geo-landscape-roundup-january-9th-2012/
source: http://apievangelist.com/2012/01/09/local-geo-landscape-roundup-january-9th-2012/
domain: apievangelist.com
image: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}<p>From the Foursquare Blog

	The foursquare-powered art thesis! - (01-09-2012) - Take a look! Know of any cool foursquare projects? Post them in the comments!
	API Highlight: Use your check-ins to track your carbon emissions! - (01-05-2012) - bunch of people have been using foursquare to track their New Years resolutions, from staying fit to eating healthy. If one of your resolutions is to be greener this year, you can start by using the AMEE Location Foot printer(ALF) to track your environmental footprint based on your foursquare check-in data. ALF looks at the distance between the places you check in to throughout the week, makes a best guess at what mode of transportation you used (plane, car, or walking), and then calculates your CO2 emissions.

From the Facebook Blog

	How-To: Optimize the Graph API data fetch using ETags - (01-09-2012) - Imagine if you could only get data from an API when things have changed or there is new data? Well, you do not have to imagine anymore, the Facebook Graph API now supports HTTP ETags. ETags support on the Facebook Platform can help you reduce bandwidth consumption and client-side overhead by suppressing output when making Graph API calls. In addition, clients (especially mobile devices on slow connections) can increase performance and reduce data usage when calling the Graph API with ETags.
	Announcing In-App Currency Offers - (01-06-2012) - Facebook gives users the ability to earn virtual currency by completing advertiser offers. For app developers, these offers can be a valuable additional source of revenue by helping them monetize users that may not otherwise pay for virtual currency. Today were launching in-app currency offers, which lets developers award users with their own in-app currency (e. g. , Fred Currency in Fred's game) upon completing an offer. Previously, developers were able to integrate Credits offers, where users earned Facebook Credits by completing offers. The new in-app currency offers product is in addition to the Credits offers product, and you can utilize either or both in your app.
	Platform Updates: Operation Developer Love - (01-04-2012) - This past week, we provided an update on our Facebook Platform SDKs, a retrospective of Platform changes in 2011 and launched the following changes:Stories In Timeline App Tab Stories published from an app using Feed dialog or Graph API will now show in the app's tab on the user's timeline. This is consistent with Open Graph actions published from an app showing in the app's tab. Improved Insights for Web Sites We made two improvements to tracking and reporting Insights for Web sites. We now unpack bit. ly URLs and track and report referrals to the underlying URL. As a result, you will now get accurate referral reporting when you use short bit. ly URLs in Facebook posts.

From the InfoChimps Blog

	Meet the Infochimps Platform for Enterprises - (01-09-2012) - We are producing more data than ever before in human history. Our lives, our friends and coworkers, the products we buy, where we hang out, even how our behavior changes with the weather all of this data exists online today. For smart developers, figuring out how to connect this data together can help unlock deep value. For enterprises, this can translate to a previously only dreamed about level of insight into their customers, which will ultimately lead to better conversations and more sales. But connecting the dots isn't as easy as it sounds: this data is scattered across the web and it does not integrate with your business existing systems, and often, its just too big.
	Program or Be Programmed - (01-04-2012) - average of 40 weeks. Obviously, there&amp;#8217;s a need for an immediate and effective solution. However, walk into any tech conference, startup job fair or Big Data meetup and it becomes readily apparent that there are jobs out there, but there aren't enough people with the right skills. With their ingenious and well-timed project, Code Year, Codecademy aims to teach technical skills to the masses via interactive programming lessons emailed weekly. The promise is that participants will be up and programming within the year. We suspect most folks reading this blog have some serious technical chops, but if you aren&amp;#8217;t amongst the Rubyists and PHP-junkies, this is a great way for you to get started.
	Happy Iowa Caucus Day Why Do We Care? - (01-03-2012) - Historically, the Iowa Caucus has not proven itself an accurate indicator of who eventually wins that year's Presidential election. In fact, the only candidate to win an Iowa Caucus and go on to win the presidency was George W. Bush in 2000. Other winners of the Iowa Caucus have include Mike Huckabee and Bob Dole (twice! ). So, how in the world could a political spectator pick a winning candidate with so few options out there for accurate predictors? Well, you may recall our posts about how Twitter Predicts GOP Front runners or how fundraising may be more correlated to election victors than poll numbers.
</p>
<center><p><a href="http://apievangelist.com/2012/01/09/local-geo-landscape-roundup-january-9th-2012/" style='padding:25px; font-sze:18px; font-weight: bold;'>Read Full Story</a></p></center>
