---
layout: post
title: Turn Your Wordpress Blog into Mobile City Guide
url: http://kinlane.com/2012/04/09/turn-your-wordpress-blog-into-mobile-city-guide/
image: http://kinlane-productions.s3.amazonaws.com/api-evangelist-site/blog/Placeling-Logo.png
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>
     I'm always on the lookout for tools that CityGrid publishers can use alongside the web and mobile apps they've built using CityGrid Places and Advertising APIs. Today I came across a cool Wordpress plugin over at WP Mayor, a site for WordPress news, articles, hacks and plugin reviews, that turns your local blog into an iPhone enabled city guide, called Placeling. To get started, Placeling provides an iPhone app that allows you to mark places that you've been, which will provide the reference for blog posts that you write later.  Next you install and activate the Placeling plugin in your Worpress site. You'll notice that now, when you write a blog post you'll see a marketer next to the upload photo button, and a new box called "Placeling" below the main editor. The first time you do this, you'll be asked to login to Placeling, which will give you access to the places that you’ve marked using the Placeling iPhone application.  No you have access to all the places you’ve been, linking them to the blog posts your writing on the places and things you’ve seen. Each blog that is linked up to your Placeling places will be available via the Placeling iPhone app for other people, showing a summary you provide and a link to your blog post.  The Wordpress plugin automatically appends the Placeling logo to the footer of your blog post, giving credit to Placeling and completing the local places blogging network they are working to build. I think Placeling is  a creative approach to linking up local content to places, in a very hyperlocal way.  It shows a lot of promise if you can come up with ways to incentivize local bloggers to link their content to the network, and potentially monetize with places that pay and advertising. Download the Placeling iPhone App Download the Placeling Wordpress Plugin Article Source Credit - Introducing Placeling: Turn Your Blog Into an iPhone-based City Guide
</p>