---
layout: post
title: CityGrid Local Mobile Social Stack: Geoloqi
url: http://kinlane.com/2012/02/05/citygrid-local,-mobile,-social-stack--geoloqi/
image: http://kinlane-productions.s3.amazonaws.com/api-evangelist-site/blog/Geoloqi_Logo.png
---
{% include JB/setup %}
<p>
     In February I’m spending more time building, what I’ve dubbed the CityGrid Local, Mobile, Social Stack, a list of APIs, platforms and tools that you can use in your local-mobile applications. Of course CityGrid Places, Offers, Reviews and Advertising are first in that stack, but I want to identify other APIs, tools and platforms that can also assist you in quickly building your mobile app. As I add items to this stack. I will showcase them one by one here on the blog. The first one on my list is Geoloqi, which offers a pretty impressive set of location tracking, message and geofencing APIs and SDKS: Real-time Location Tracking - Low battery impact, easy to setup mobile location tracking system, built for multiple platforms. Track Location in Real-time Battery Safe Tracking Customizable Tracking Rates Works Indoors and Outdoors SDKs for iOS, Android, Javascript, Ruby, PHP and more Location-Based Messaging  - Location-based messaging tools, allow developers to send messages upon arriving, dwelling or leaving a place, as well as time or day or a user's speed. Carrier Agnostic - Works with any carrier Battery Safe - minimal effect on battery life Push Notifications for iOS and Android, SMS and Email for all devices Battery Safe Trigger Zones - Enables management of a device's battery life while using location, to minimize battery drain. Trigger actions on enter, dwell or exit, speed and temperature coming soon. Write custom events to be triggered Battery Safe - our SDK automatically manages battery life. Hosted Spatial Storage - Create and store places, messages, and geofences. Create private places Quickly import your datasets Search for nearby places Automatically sync relevant data to users Optimized for use with real-time applications and battery-safe operations Geoloqi is a perfect addition to the CityGrid Local, Mobile, Social Stack. They offer some essential location tracking, location messaging and storage every mobile app can take advantage of, and they do it all in a way that considers your users battery life--which will make for a much better user experience. In Spring 2012 they are also working on rich location based analytics, so you can gain more insight into your mobile app users behavior. I’m adding Geoloqi to the CityGrid Local, Mobile, Social Stack and will be weaving more of their services into what we offer here in the CityGrid Developer Center as well as our hackathon tools.
</p>