---
published: true
layout: post
title: The Importance of Writing In My Life
date: 2019-06-16T09:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Kin Lane
image: https://s3.amazonaws.com/kinlane-productions/algo-rotoscope/square/64_176_800_500_0_max_0_-1_-1.jpg
---

I like to write. I've written here on kinlane.com since June 2007, so 12 years. I've written on apievangelist.com since September 2010, so coming up on 9 years. Historically, I've believed I could become a professional writer, but after seeing how much work my wife Audrey puts into her work, I'm not sure I have the discipline. Maybe someday I'll find it. Until then, I must keep writing, and the blogging format seems to be the way to keep the writing juices flowing, producing a regular stream of short form fictional and non-fictional work. I'm writing because it is important to me to work through my thoughts. I'm writing on the blog(s), because it is the only format I have found any amount of success--it is what I know.

I took much of the last six months off from writing publicly, where I tried to write in my notebook, without actually publishing anything online. I ended up rarely writing anything. The sense of urgency wasn't there. I'm still not 100% sure why this is. It is something I'll keep exploring. I guess I could be somewhat of an attention hound, but I think I've gotten beyond the social media popularity contest environment where I learned to blog originally. I don't really care for the attention, or hearing people's responses, I'm just looking to write, and doing it out in the open gives it some sort of urgency and purpose. IDK. Regardless, I want to write, and I enjoy doing the work that goes into writing a story--the trick is always figuring out how to do on my own terms, and not writing for someone else. This is critical.

Writing on a regular basis feels sane to me. It helps me work through the many ideas that flow through my day, and helps me plan for the week ahead, while also processing the week that just happened. It provides me a sort of public journal of where my head is at, and drawing the line that determines whether or not something exists or not. If I write it, edit it, and publish--it exists. If I didn't, the idea doesn't exist, and I can't reference with a quick Google Search, or shared URL. I'm reminded of the importance of the writing process for me, which is pushing me to write here on kinlane.com more, but also fire back up apievangelist.com to flesh out some of the API ideas in my head, organize them somewhere for future use. Writing on my blog is my form of therapy. It is an essential part of making sense of the world as it moves by me so fast, putting it somewhere that I can continue to reference and learn from in the future.

I am coming back around to a good place with writing here on kinlane.com, and happy to be back working on apievangelist.com. I still need to invest more into my algorotoscope.work, as well as my fictional writing at alternate.kinlane.com. I still have trouble with my fictional work because of the whole fake news thing--I am slowly coming around, and finding some mojo to craft stories in this space. When it comes to technology I find it more stimulating to craft design fiction than to write about the sad state of affairs in the real world technology sector. I like the alternate + algorotoscope lens the most, because it allows me to explore different ways of understanding how technology is creeping into our lives, and often guiding our behavior. I think this will be the future of my work, but unfortunately it isn't one that pays the bills, so I'm guessing you'll still see my writing about APIs, acting as fuel for my day job--APIs.

I think the most significant shift in my writing recently is the dismantling of the API Evangelist persona. My future writing about APIs will be dryer, and centered on research that benefits my career and day job. I don't give a shit if people do or don't do APIs anymore. I'm not evangelizing anything, except maybe telling people they should be skeptical of all technologies, especially APIs. In the end, I just want to write. I like words. I like stories. I like putting on different hats, pretending to be someone different, crafting a narrative that speaks to a different view of the world. I'm also not going to directly write for money. If there are revenue derived from the existing of my writing, I'm all for it. However, I won't be offering up my services to write white papers, guides, or blog posts for anyone. It just isn't worth it. There is no nourishment for the soul in writing for the man. Words don't work like that for me.

Writing is important to me. I realize that I have to do it, to keep the cobwebs clear. One of the common sayings I had wrong because of my roots as a speaker and listener, over being a reader in my early adult years--was that you flushed something out, instead of fleshed something out. The idea of putting meat on the bones didn't resonate with me, but unclogging the pipes of a stuck idea, and moving it forward down line did. I feel clogged when I'm not writing. I feel not just a desire, but a need to "flush" out my ideas, to unclog my overactive brain (which is just a series of pneumatic tubes). It is just one of many glitches in my matrix developed from a fragmented educational history, while still also spending my time telling and listening to stories. I don't consider myself a great, or even good storyteller. I still have a lot of work ahead of me, but I have come to realize that writing, and being a storyteller is an important part of my daily balance, so it is important that I keep the channels open, allowing myself to work through my ideas, and keep things moving forward.
