---
published: true
layout: post
title: Not Talking On The Phone
date: 2019-07-16T09:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Kin Lane
image: https://s3.amazonaws.com/kinlane-productions/algorotoscope-master/carry-load-carryload-marcel-duchamp.jpg
---
I do not like to talk on the phone. I like to write down my thoughts. It makes them more real for me. It makes them tangible. I know that most people are not like this. I know that there are many people who like to talk on the phone. They prefer it. I had three separate people that I rubbed the wrong way this week by not being willing to just jump on the phone and talk about something they wanted from me. As I do, rather than talk about it, I figured I’d just write a story about it. Explore this situation further, and share my views of "jumping on the phone to talk".

For me talking on the phone is a precious time. It is time I should be paid for. If you want to pay me by the hour, I’ll talk on the phone with you. It is time that I can’t do three things at once. It’s something my ADD mind can't jump from to something else, and then back again within any moment. Talking on the phone limits me. Talking on the phone gives me anxiety. I’m happy to accept cash in exchange for my time in person or on the phone—just let me know, I’ll send you a PayPal request. I’m sorry, but my time is valuable, and I can’t just be jumping on the phone with everyone who emails me. I don’t do this with family and friends, and I sure don’t do it with random people. Sorry. ;-(

Beyond the complicated me. Let’s talk about the people who want me to talk on the phone. You want something from me. I’m not asking for something from you. If this were the case, I would bend to your desires and wishes, why isn’t this reciprocated? After that I will share my past experiences with people who do not want to email with me. They are usually looking for the upper hand when it comes to accountability. Most people I know who are strict phone talkers usually read in a book, or heard the advice from someone they respect, that you never put things in writing. It is usually because you want to limit your liability when it comes to basic levels of accountability, all the way up to being held legally liable for something. This isn’t just a few people I’ve known. This is pretty EVERYONE I know who has this rule. This is a fundamental rule of how they get the upper hand in business.

That is not me. And having been the person who did not have the upper hand in many situations, because I’m focused on the tech or the human side of things, I’ve learned this lessons the hard way. Oh I know. It’s not you. You are one of the good ones. Sorry, they have all say that too! ;-) Guessing that is in the book too? I’m sorry, if writing down what you want from me in a simple email is such a problem, based upon experience, I’m guessing you aren’t looking to compensate me for my time, and you don’t really value my time. Which usually boils down to someone not respecting me and just looking to extract value from me. Something I regularly fall sucker to because I tend to be a nice guy (not always), but I’m getting more and more weary of this game, and working harder to push back. Hard.

This is always just about business. It is about getting some of my time, and my knowledge without having to give anything back. If you do this enough times you get ahead. It is business 101. However, from my end it is how I die by a thousand connections. I’ve written at least two or three times about how I could work for free 40 hours a week by responding to all the requests in my inbox. But you know, from the selfish perspective of the good people who just want to talk on the phone for a bit, this isn’t a problem. From my end, there is no reciprocity. There is no value brought to me. Most people then promise there is money involved. Which then in my experience becomes a chore to collect, and something I often have to give up on, and won’t be able to hold accountable because there is no paper trail. In the end, why bother?

If you find yourself frustrated because you can’t get me on the phone, you might want to reassess your overall approach. If there truly is money involved, let me hit you with that PayPal request. You’d be surprised how fast I can make time in my day for you. However, it doesn’t mean I’ll be buying into your idea, or want to work closer, you are still going to have to sell that one a bit harder. It will ultimately involve some writing skills. If you want to engage with me on projects, you need to be able distill your thoughts down into a few sentences and bullets to make sure we are on the same page. Or you will just have to put in such a large amount within the PayPal request to ensure I stay on the phone long enough to get your point across. I’m sorry I’m such a crank and sell-out in this area, but it is base upon thirty years of operating in the business.
